in arches national park it's easy to see
many of the natural formations and sites
right from the side of the road but if
you're willing to drive on a rougher
road there's an entirely different
experience awaiting you away from the
cars and crowds the tower arch height is
a fairly easy three mile round-trip
through open desert in the remote
Klondike Bluffs section of the park the
trail gains about 100 feet in elevation
almost all within the first half mile of
the hike
the desert may look desolate but it's
actually full of life
even the ground is alive arches is home
to vast amounts of biological soil crust
this living black-ish mat is home to
microscopic organisms and is extremely
fragile a single step by a hiker can
destroy decades of growth a good reason
to tread lightly in this remarkable
wilderness
tower arch is massive with a span of 92
feet weathered into the entrada
sandstone it has a strong and graceful
feel about it
perched beneath this imposing stone
presence you have the perfect place to
relax and enjoy the last light of the
day
you